## Pry helps you learn code

_via [5 Pry Features Every Ruby Developer Should Know](https://blog.cognitohq.com/five-pry-features-every-ruby-developer-should-know/)_

I knew about [pry](https://github.com/pry/pry)'s `ls` command to list methods and variables available in the current scope, and at some point had known (though hadn't used much) `ls --locals` to see the local variables and their current values.

But **TIL `find-method`**, e.g. `find-method xpath Nokogiri` to search for all methods with that string w/ Nokogiri.

And **TIL `stat`**, e.g. `stat Nokogiri::CSS.xpath_for` to get method info.

And **TIL `show-source`**, e.g. `show-source Nokogiri::CSS.xpath_for` (pretty self-explanatory). I had usually done good old `source_location`, e.g. `Nokogiri::CSS.method(:xpath_for).source_location`, and then jumped into the code in vim based off of that. I can see situations where that's still what I'll do, as many methods in larger libraries include calls to other methods and generally require a bit of context to understand how they work, but as quick reference, getting the source and info like this is sweet.

## (Ruby) Module Builder pattern

_[The Ruby Module Builder Pattern](http://dejimata.com/2017/5/20/the-ruby-module-builder-pattern)_

Dynamically defining stuff in ruby (meta-programming, generally speaking) is fun and/or horrible, depending on whether you can treat the resulting code as a blackbox, or if you actually have to venture it, as it can make things pretty difficult to follow.

There's an approach to dynamical method definition via one-off modules (see the post for more details). An alternative proposed by the author is to **(TIL) define classes which inherit from `Module`, with an `#initialize` method that itself calls `define_method`**. Then, the including line would look like `include FancyClassModuleThing.new(any, params, needed)`. This is a pretty neat approach that has quite a few benefits. I'll be curious to see the next time it's something I want to apply in my code.

There's actually a lot more to that post. It's a pretty nice deep-dive into structuring more complicated libraries.

## JavaScript might have some private class fields

_[JavaScript’s new #private class fields](http://thejameskyle.com/javascripts-new-private-class-fields.html)_

Apparently they're in Stage 2 of the JS standards process (I don't really know what that means, but presumably it means they've at least got some support, but might not look quite like the proposal).

The idea is they'd look like:

```javascript
class Point {
  #x;
  #y;

  constructor(x, y) {
    this.#x = x;
    this.#y = y;
  }

  equals(point) {
    return this.#x === point.#x && this.#y === point.#y;
  }
}
```

Seems like private class methods would be a follow-up.


