## Groupthink

I started programming with Ruby on Rails in 2012, shortly before DHH, Rails's creator and continuing core contributor, [announced Turbolinks](https://twitter.com/dhh/status/251024691337244672). Railsconf 2013 demonstrated the battle between this document-based approach, with DHH arguing for the turbolinks based approach, and others discussing various JavaScript frameworks, from Backbone to Ember to Angular. 

After speaking to some developers at Railsconf this year, I've been looking into Turbolinks again. For whatever reason, it seemed to receive little love, with most preferring to flock to exciting new front-end frameworks. I'm now finally reading the docs on the [turbolinks repo](https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks), and playing around a bit with turbolinks in toy projects. It's surprising the performance benefits it can produce, and seems like it should be a tool worth considering for anyone that feels comfortable using Rails. While some products truly demand the sort of interactions provided by front-end frameworks, many sites can run just fine with server-rendered pages.

The neglect that turbolinks received (at least from many of the engineers I know, interact with, and work with) feels like an unfortunate case of groupthink. I doubt many of us who shunned it took the time to understand how it works, and when it might be a tool worth using. I know it would've made many projects I've worked on feel faster for users, with minimal additional cost to development - which, in my experience, isn't something that front-end frameworks can say. 
